Ephesians chapter 1, let's read verse 15 through 23, then we'll come back and do verse by verse.
Therefore, I also, after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints, do not cease to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayer.
The great apostle Paul praying for the people that he ministers to and praying for the people of
Ephesus an example for us and that's today's passage that verse 17 that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ the father of glory may give to you the spirit of wisdom and revelation and the knowledge of him in the eyes of your understanding being enlightened that you may know what is the hope of his calling we just sung that worship song the beautiful our living hope which are the riches of
the glory of his inheritance in the saints.
And what is the exceeding greatness of his power towards us who believe according to the working of his mighty power.
Definitely highlight that one, you highlighters, which he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places.
far above all principalities and powers and might and dominion and every name that is named not only in this age but also in that which is to come and he put all things under his feet and gave him the behead over all things to the church which is his body the fullness of him which fills all and all here we are
the church in his body, this is your location, this is your position and we will build off of that as we study this today.
But we've spent, what would be just a beautiful chapter, never designed these things thankfully because I could never design them this well, but you know where we ended the book of Genesis and then we
said, well, what do we do in the interim?
What's the next book that we do?
Do we do Exodus?
But there's just, I felt this leading, well, let's just spend a little time in the book of Ephesians.
Maybe not study the whole book, but let's just get into the book and see what the Lord does.
And what a beautiful passage it's been as it's been closing out a year, then starting a new year and the power of it.
And here's
What we've studied up to this point is who we are in him, his, the whole purpose of his coming on this earth is to be his and then that we are spiritually rich.
Yes, I'm very clear that I don't mean any of this prosperity doctrine and all these type of things.
We separate ourselves from that.
We actually separate ourselves from all those discussions so that everyone knows Jesus didn't come for our stuff he came for us.
And he's promising us and we just read this that we're spiritually rich.
We're wealthy in him.
And then in our passage today he's gonna give us this
outline of prayer and the power that's available to us because of our spiritual riches in him, in Christ Jesus, that Paul prays for the church in Ephesus, but we get to pray for our brothers and sisters and ourselves as well.
What an outline.
And here's the thing I always say, you will never go wrong ever when you pray the scripture.
because it's anointed.
It's been set apart by him.
And so we know that the things we're praying are directly in the heart of God because the word of God is the heart of God because the word became flesh and dwelt among us.
What a passage we have before us as we look at these things.
And we started off really the theme of the book of Ephesians.
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ.
So spiritual blessing in heavenly places in Christ seated at the throne, living to make intercession for us.
I think we're going to make it, but the Lord wants to speak to us and show us all that's been given to you.
You still have to apply it.
And that's why we study the word.
That's why we go chapter by chapter.
That's why we go verse by verse so that we can learn this word and learn what it means and actually believe and seize the promises of it and then take what's been given to us.
William, what's his name?
William Randall Hurst.
Everybody sound familiar?
The wealthy oil tycoon, land baron, riches beyond riches, just mega money in
in his life.
Well, did you know that he was just totally loved fine art?
Had this massive art collection in his house and other places that he had because he had multiple locations of offices and homes and, you know, businesses and the likes and this type of things.
But he loved art.
And so he would study art and he would read art books and, you know, this is
dozens of years ago and he read a description of a piece of art that just he said I must have this I must have this in my collection had people dedicated to scouring the the world just for his art collection that's how much money had and he called these people here's the piece of art that I want now go and find it and they spent months
traversing the country, the world, going abroad and looking for this piece of art, then they come back to him and they say, we have found this masterpiece that you so desire.
And he says, I must have it.
Where is it?
And they said, it's in your warehouse.
You've owned it for decades.
And it's a true story.
Had he
had his catalog of art that he owned.
He would know what was his and what he possessed.
He could have took that piece of art and put it immediately on the wall that he so desired and enjoyed it as well, but instead he did not know the wealth that he had.
And I find that story interesting.
I'll speak to you as you can listen to me speak to myself.
How much spiritual blessing
I have in Christ Jesus at my disposal to live life in that more abundant, to live a life set apart, to live a life that's not in this world but in the heavenlies.
And I don't seize all the promises of God and all the wealth and all the riches that He has given me.
And so today as we look at this, Paul's gonna tell us, hey, here's how you can seize those spiritual blessings.
And you know what?
you can pray for your brothers and sisters as well, that they may seize spiritual blessing.
You take these four outlines and you pray this for somebody, pray it daily, pray it weekly, pray it monthly, don't turn it into something rote, but let it just sink into your heart and say, you know what today I'm going to dedicate, I'm going to pray this for this person in my life, but you'll never go wrong praying it for yourself.
And we'll see four prayer points that our brother Paul lays out that he prayed.
This is his prayer.
that we get to glean and apply, that they will know God more.
Verse 17, that they will know the hope of his calling.
Verse 18, they will know they are his inheritance.
Verse 18 and verse 19 through 23, they will know the power available to them, the riches of his wealth.
Father, we bless you and we thank you and in every study, we want to know you more, we want to know
Who you are, we want to know what you think of us.
We want to know what you want us to do.
Lord, we want to be able to boldly ask of you or ask as well for someone on their behalf who maybe can't ask.
Maybe they're wiped out.
Maybe they just are down and out and they don't think that you're there and they're just so far and defeated, but we can pray them back into your presence.
And Lord, we believe it.
Paul's given a prayer to these
people in Ephesus and so too, prayer matters and the power thereof.
And what do we need to be on guard of?
Because the devil is going to want to steal, kill and destroy.
He wants to wipe out this word.
He doesn't want us to believe that there's life everlasting.
He doesn't want to believe that you've come, that we may have life more abundant and overflowing in the spiritual realm and things.
apart from this world, and he surely doesn't want us to know his whole role in John 10, 10, that come and steal, kill and destroy.
Would you bind this devil?
Would you put me away, Lord, and just let the word flow that you've been speaking in this passage?
And I pray this in your name, amen.
Verse 15 and 16, we start with Paul after 14 verses of just wonderful,
promises and power and heartfelt of the word of God and the heart of God.
All those messages are online video and audio and the notes are there as well.
Well, he says in verse 15 and 16.
Therefore, I also, after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints, do not cease to give thanks for you making mention of you in my prayers.
And then he's gonna break forth into this four point prayer that we're gonna see.
He's gonna pray for them because he's given thanks.
He's thinking of them.
And it's amazing account and testimony of this church here in Ephesus that they had this faith in Jesus Christ.
This is who the Lord Jesus Christ, by the way, which is a powerful statement.
He's more than Jesus savior.
He's the Lord.
And there's a place that Lord, if you're Lord,
That means master, that means king, then I am subject to you and your words.
And so this prayer that we have, that we pray for others and pray for ourselves, it is also aligning us to the prayer of obedience.
Lord, you said it, that settles it.
It's not for me to debate it.
It's just for me to obey it and you apply it.
you'll start living in the power and victory of the life of Jesus Christ that He gave us to have, but the Lord Jesus in your love for all the saints.
He loves these saints.
They love one another and let that be a word for every church in this church.
By this they will know that you're my disciples by your love one for another.
You know what love does for one another?
It lifts us
up in prayer.
It intercedes for one another.
It comes and says, how can I pray for you?
It comes and says, let me minister to you in your time of need.
And because there will be a time where you minister to me.
And oh, just the beauty of the fellowship.
But he says, I do not cease to give thanks for you making mention of you in my prayer.
Hey, what we just read, this is a great church, right?
Well, let's not forget a hundred years from now, book of Revelation, the church of Ephesus, what's he gonna say about them?
They lost their love.
That's the indictment against them in the book of Revelation.
Less than a hundred years, less than a generation.
You know, I think there's a place.
We
And we should, we pray for people who aren't doing well.
We intercede for them.
Word comes.
This is what's going on in my life.
And we go to prayer for them.
We minister to them.
We take them out for a bite to eat or coffee and the likes of those things.
And that's our calling as brothers and sisters that we hedge and stand with one another.
But you know what we need to do?
Paul shows it.
We need to pray for one another who are doing well and we need to pray that we keep on doing well because they're doing well, but we're going to read of a church that eventually doesn't do well.
They lose their love, their first love for Jesus Christ.
We need to come.
and pray across the board, Lord, they're doing well.
They encourage me.
You know what?
Obviously they must be doing great because look at the ministries they're doing and this and that.
But then we need to pray, Lord, hedge them.
Because you know what?
The devil, he aims high.
He wants to destroy those who are in leadership.
He wants to destroy those who are doing well.
Even wipe out those who are doing well, then the people aren't doing well, go, it's hopeless.
If he goes down, she goes down, there's no hope for me because I look to them as the trophy that God holds up.
If they go down, how in the world do I stand?
You know, the Chinese long ago, they had a health program.
Fascinating.
The United States of America should apply this, but okay, let's not digress into all that stuff.
You would pay your doctor upfront every year.
Not for your visits.
Not for your surgeries or anything of those things.
You paid them up front.
You know why?
Because you paid them up front because then it became the doctor's responsibility to keep you healthy all year.
You would come and the doctor would tell you how to stay healthy.
how to guard against this or early diagnosis of that and take care of preventative medicine.
And if a doctor lost a patient because he didn't do his due diligence in preventive medicine, they were to put a lantern outside the doctor's office for every patient that didn't keep well.
Boy, imagine that showing up your doctor today and go, whoa,
There's a hundred lanterns there.
I think I'm gonna go find a new doctor.
Go to a doctor and go, wow, look, there's no lanterns, man.
This is the one that I want.
We need to do the same for us.
We need to pray as a preventive medicine to protect one another, to keep going and doing well.
Well, verse 17, our first point, and all these are high level.
We could spend a sermon, study,
on every one of these.
I actually, if you get the notes, I actually have a lot of the Greek and the broken down and the meaning and the verb tenses and stuff like that.
And you can take the notes and read them through and meditate on them, pray each point for yourself.
But our first point that Paul prays for, and we should pray for ourselves,
And I've been walking with the Lord in February like, ooh, 35 years.
It's amazing.
And I'll tell you, I still know that I know that there's more to know.
The more I know, the more I know that there's more to know.
What I thought I knew 33 years ago, embarrassing.
I thought I had to sum total.
Now every time I opened the word even today this morning, I go, wow.
It's amazing this verse.
It's amazing what you, who you are and what you did and these type of things.
But that's the prayer that Paul has for them that verse 17, that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give to you the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of him.
There's a prayer.
Lord, through the spirit,
which we've studied resides where in the believer in us.
There's already a spirit down payment.
We studied that last week who's ready to be our instructor, ready to be our teacher.
And Paul's praying the spirit that's in you, give you of the wisdom and revelation of the knowledge of him.
Lord open speak, start showing them.
And what is wisdom, wisdom is knowledge applied.
And you can have all the knowledge in the world and we know it because every one of us has kids.
Ha ha.
You know, like, you know this, why?
How in the world did you find yourself in this place?
You can know these things, but you need the wisdom to apply these things in the right manner.
And so first we have to know him.
And so here is this, that Paul's telling him, Lord, that you would give them more knowledge of who you are.
know you more, come into this relationship with you, and how is that going to be made?
We've been doing this for a couple weeks, how it leads up and these type of things.
I'm so thankful that it's not hard.
I'm so thankful for what we do.
If I had to teach topically every week, I'd be a nervous wreck.
And what I mean by top, you know, a topical message, I'm going to teach on love, then you got to go through all the scriptures and somehow make it make sense and cohesive and under, you know, and flowing and this and that.
Okay, next week I'm going to teach on wisdom.
I mean, it can be done.
That's not a problem.
But there's a place of just chapter by chapter verse by verse.
It wasn't hard.
What are you teaching on next week?
Well, I finished verse 15, so that means I start on verse 15.
The only question is, how far do I go?
It's not where I start, it's where I end.
And Lord, now show me and piece this all together.
But here's what the Lord promises us.
As we study this word, all scripture is given, 2 Timothy 3.16, by inspiration of God.
And it's profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction.
for instructions in righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished onto all good works.
This word, perfect, it just means complete.
I can, through the word of God, be complete and ready for whatever he has before me.
Oh, I know, the work Calvary Chapel, not telling you anything new, this is what we do.
But I think we all need to be reminded of the power of the scriptures.
And then why tomorrow morning it's worth waking up to meet the scripture, the word, because the word is none other than God.
It's the spirit.
It's the presence of the Lord.
And I don't know about you, but I bet you you're just like me.
I bet you everybody in this room, especially at the beginning of the year, always take the beginning
of the year.
I can do it continually through the year, but very much the beginning of the year.
Lord, what is your direction for me?
I don't want to enter in and just do what I did last year because that's what I did last year.
Is there something new?
Is there some new direction?
What is your heart for me in ministry and marriage and relationship and work and all these type of things, children and the likes of these things?
And then sometimes, and I think we got
humans in here, so I think it's probably applicable, is I'm literally specifically praying about something very specific in my life, whatever that may be, relationally, ministerially, physically.
You know, fill in the blanks, you're thinking of it right now.
Here's what I want to tell you.
Every time I'm in that place, here's what the Lord always reminds me, right?
Your answer is in the Word every time.
What you want an answer to, what you're facing, dealing, determining, the answer is in the Word.
And I'll tell you the power of it when he gives me the answer in the Word.
And that's why I always do my time with the Lord, not later in the day, but when I sit with that very specific morning time with him, I have a piece of paper and a pen.
because I believe he's going to talk to me.
And I'm nobody.
We're all on the same level, just different callings of ministry.
But I sit with a piece of paper and a pen because I believe you're going to talk to me, Lord.
And you'll give me an answer.
So then when I step into what I have to determine, I can go back and look and go, you know, maybe it's not turning out the way I thought, wait, I go back and you gave me an answer.
And that's what led me to where I'm at.
So even if it didn't go the way I thought, I know that moment you said, this is what I want.
And so now I know that I'm in your will because your word is your will.
Oh, it's just pure power.
It's a piece.
And then what I don't do, I don't do anything until he gives me an answer in the word.
because I need to keep searching him, and then I'll get beyond my emotions and my logic, what I think, and I'll have a word that goes, this is the heart of God in the matter.
Oh, the power of this word, and verse by verse, and the likes.
I'm sure I don't pronounce his name right, but there was a Swiss pastor, Earl Rich Swingley,
He got some interesting writings and stuff like that, became a great force in the Swiss Reformation.
Which is interesting when you study it, the Swiss Reformation was also called the Swiss Radical Reformation.
And it was radical because it
brought counter to Catholicism, which was the predominant anchor there.
This is around the 1500s.
But it also was coming against the Protestant Reformation through Luther, which here we are very much.
Anybody who's in that Protestant thread, much of it goes back through the Luther and the Protestant Reformation.
There, you got this kind of what they felt was radical, was this, what came out of this, Zoigli here in the Swiss Reformation.
You know why they thought it was radical in many ways?
Oh, it went counterculture, it went counter against government.
A lot of details about it, but here's the thing about him is he was given a,
And, you know, of course, it wasn't readily available.
He was given a copy of the New Testament in Greek, which wasn't available just readily.
And so he started to read that and just started word by word and started to do what we hear we are doing today, which we think is so common.
But the point is it wasn't common.
It wasn't common.
It was, here's the liturgy, liturgical writing.
Everybody's doing this.
It still happens today.
Some churches, what are you doing?
I'm waiting to get the word from headquarters what today's, what Sunday's message is.
Some of them even tell you what you're gonna say.
So you guys just get up and repeat what they've been told by someone else.
Well here, Zwingli, he's like, you know what we're gonna do?
We're going to go chapter by chapter, verse by verse, word by word.
And they like threw him out of conventional style church and ministries and that didn't delay him.
But he just took Bible, chapter by chapter, verse by verse, word by word, and people started hearing the word of God for the first time, understanding it for the first time, moved by the spirit of God because the word is the spirit of God.
And then all of a sudden, life started changing.
Stronghold started to be broken.
People started to know who God was and had to go tell people because it's impossible not to when you know who he is and what he's done.
That was the Protestant Reformation.
Beautiful story.
Powerful man.
It came with resistance, but he didn't yield to anyone's pressure.
We could talk about that point for another 30 minutes, but for the context I want to do all four.
of these prayers, so we will do them high level.
And the next one is that he prays in the back end of verse 18 that they will know the hope of their calling.
We sang that song, our living hope.
Verse 18 says, the eyes of your understanding being enlightened that you may know what is the hope of his calling, what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance,
in the saint that they made of the hope of his calling.
Here as we look at this Buenos Aires Argentina article in the news an 86 year old blind woman someone broke into her house this broke into her house and all she had she was blind but she had a stick and she could hear the intruders
didn't know how many, but she knew they were, she took her stick and she started beating and pounding them to the point she's just swinging the stick to the point that they couldn't bear anymore and they fled and ran out.
And then the cops ended up arresting them, which is kind of funny, but the point of the story is, you know, there's always more than meets the eye.
There is something here that, you know, that the eyes of your understanding,
that the eyes of your understanding may be enlightened that you may know what is the hope of your calling.
Though we can't see it, there's more to what we, there's more to it.
John 14, Jesus, verse two said to us, in my father's house or many mansions, if it were not so, I would have told you, I go prepare a place for you.
I think possibly the hope of our calling is quite possibly the number one failure of Christians, all of us, because we can get so vision focused on this planet earth ball of dirt that we miss.
We're just passing through.
We're just sojourners.
We're just strangers.
This is not our home.
This is not our calling that we have in this world.
And the word that Paul uses here for no in the Greek, it's to no experientially, to actually experience it.
And it's possible because the word is telling us
that the possibility of it.
Maybe you've read, hey, you want a good movie on a rainy day.
It's called The Hiding Place.
Anybody ever see it?
Betsy and Corey Tenboom harboring and protecting Jews in the persecution of the ruthless Nazis.
And they ended up, they weren't Jews themselves, but they ended up starting to harbor and hide and then get them out of the country.
Again, the movie's called The Hiding Place.
It's a great book to read as well.
The book's probably even better.
But the movie's wonderful.
If your football team's out already, and I think everybody in this room, what else is there to do today on a rainy day?
They would harbor and hide the Jewish people.
The Germans got onto it eventually, not after dozens upon dozens were set free.
They took the whole family and took them to concentration camps for their punishment.
Corey Ten Boom would survive the concentration camp, but everybody else in her family would perish.
But her sister Betsy
just this wonderful saint.
Oh, just see the movie.
And I don't know the statements in the movie, but she would teach Bible studies in the concentration camp.
Somehow they were able to get by because they take everything.
They shave your head.
They take your shoes.
They take all of your clothes.
They give you these garbs that you're going to wear.
Don't somehow some way she had a
small Bible in her hand, and they didn't check her hand, and she was able to get the Bible through all of that into the barrack concentration camp.
And they would have Bible study, and I'm digressing for a moment, but it's worth the digression because who knows what's going on in your life today.
The fleas and the gnats were horrendous.
And they would just attack and be everywhere in the barrack and the holding place.
And people would curse and say, where's God?
And Betsy would be, even God's in the fleas.
Even God's in the fleas.
And they're like, how can you say that?
And she would go, if you notice, the Nazi guards will not come in here.
because of the fleas and the gnats.
And therefore, because they won't come in, they don't turn our beds and mattresses over, and they don't find this Word of God.
And we get to do these Bible studies and have the Word of God in this place.
And people actually began to pray for fleas and gnats and pray and give thanks for the fleas and gnats in their lives.
Amazing story.
Betsy would die.
But what was said about her that was amazing by others who survived, they go, it was an amazing thing when Betsy talked about heaven.
It was like she had already been there.
That's power when someone sees the hope that's in us.
Hey, you know what?
This world ain't it.
This ball of dirt.
I'm just passing through, but I have a living hope.
His name is Jesus.
He's got a mansion waiting for me and I'm experiencing him now today.
I don't have to wait to heaven.
And so again, one of the greatest failings is the missing of waiting for heaven.
When heaven came down and walked among us, heaven left this word that became flesh and heaven, the spirit of God dwelling in us that we can experience him today.
The God of heaven walking in this room right now, speaking to us, leading us in worship.
Oh, what a beautiful place that leaves us to where heaven bound.
We can live free today.
I don't have to be enslaved to my depressions, my defeats and my failings.
The things I wished that would be and the things that aren't.
I can give thanks for what I have and even thanks for what I don't have because I trust him.
But I can live free and there's a power when I know I'm heaven bound therefore I'm going to see him face to face.
And when I see him, may there be this place of just beautiful.
There you are.
And that's what we say.
And he'll say the same thing.
There you are.
And then Hebrews chapter one, because of where heaven bound Hebrews 12, one and two, therefore we also.
since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses.
Let us lay aside every weight in the sin which so easily ensnares us, and let us run with endurance to race to this set before us.
Looking on to Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God.
We're just passing through.
And you know what?
I can pray this because there's people in my life who are brothers and sisters and they have no vision of heaven.
Their life is so narrowly focused on their moment and everything in their lives.
They have nothing other than this world and therefore they're going to be bound to the disappointment of this world.
I'm reminded of that story, because I love the space stuff.
I went work down there at the Space Center and got to launch rockets.
It was an exciting day of work.
I would have done it for free.
But maybe you remember, I think it was 1972, that Il faded Apollo 13 mission.
They didn't land on the moon.
It was our last shot.
We're actually going to circle the moon this year.
I believe we're not going to land there.
Don't want to digress too much on that.
But Jim Lovell and his crew on there, they had ruptured tanks.
They couldn't land.
It was a miracle.
for these three astronauts to return home.
They had to shut down all the power because they were on battery power.
They didn't have any generating power at this point.
They only had a few seconds of power left, you know, minutes at the most.
And they were coming in on reentry.
And if you don't hit reentry right, you actually bounce off.
the atmosphere because the way God created this earth and then you bounce off and then there is no re-entry you just go into oblivion and eventually you just drift away and die or you come in too low you come in too low on the heat and you actually burn up and so they were coming in they came to the realization you're gonna have to fire your engine so that you can correct your trajectory and
Otherwise, it's bounce out or bounce down.
So you got to get back on the flight path without all the great modern technology and navigation and all these type of things.
And they said, so this is your challenge, Jim Lovell, one of the greatest astronauts ever, of course.
And Jim Lovell says to move this vehicle
Without modern technology of all the navigation, you have to focus yourself and fix your eyes on a target and stay on that target, or else there is no hope.
And for 39 seconds, they are going to have to do that perfect burn and keep in that trajectory.
And Jim Lovell, the great pilot that he was, said, look through his window
and saw the earth, which was their goal, and he says, if I keep the earth inside the frame of this window for 39 seconds, then that's my trajectory that I know, because my goal is earth.
And for 39 seconds of pure agony, with that thing bouncing all around, he was able to put that
spacecraft down through that window which became probably in NASA history the greatest miracle and greatest day in the life of NASA.
Even beyond walking on the moon they were able to come back and bring humans back from a failed mission.
And I think there's just something to be said there and sometimes it's agonizing to keep heaven our hope in this window.
You know, as I'm speaking to you right now, because I have asked the facilities guy here, I said, no one else can see it but me.
I'm the only one who can see this.
But as I'm putting this up here right now, you don't know it, but there's a cross on the back of that wall, 10 foot high.
And I said, put me across on the back of that wall.
So when I teach,
And I speak, I always have the cross before me, because that's the ultimate hope of the resurrection is that cross right there.
And when I was putting this into the focus right now, the only thing I see, no faces, all I see through my little window here is this cross.
And you know, there's a, we must continually go, my hope and my calling.
That's why this prayer is vital for us.
But you know what?
It's a great prayer.
For others, as we pray, Lord, that they would know the hope of their calling.
Lord, if they know they're going to heaven, then it will change the way that they live.
And then to add the third point, they will know they are His inheritance.
Verse 18, in the eyes of your understanding being enlightened, that you may know what is the hope of His calling.
Second back end, what are the riches of the glory?
of his capital H inheritance in the saint.
It's just a beautiful, powerful passage that we're his inheritance.
We have a spiritual inheritance, but the fact of the power is we are his inheritance.
It's twofold when you consider that we have an inheritance.
It's heaven.
He has an inheritance for the finished work that he did on the cross and his inheritance.
And we read Hebrews chapter one and two.
for the joy that was sent before him endured the cross despised in the shame so that he might redeem us.
Matthew 13, he gives the parable.
Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in the field to which when a man has found that he hides and for the joy goes and sells all that he has and buys that field.
People misapply that parable and says, you know, that's what we're to do.
Sell everything we got and follow Jesus.
But our works
filthy rags.
There's none righteous.
No, not one.
There's none who does good.
Nothing we can do can redeem us.
This is about Jesus coming, buying back the title deed to the earth that Adam forfeited to the devil so that he could take the treasure that's in the field.
And that you and I, again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant seeking beautiful pearls.
When he found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had and bought it.
It's Jesus buying us, bringing us back.
that were his inheritance.
Regardless of age, all of us, but usually I make this very directed to the singles, and I say to the single girls, the young girls, we're raising up the next generation in this church, your God's treasure.
Remember that.
Don't do anything less than be the treasure that you are.
And I have conversations with men.
I go, you're God's treasure.
Treasures don't stick things in their body of needles.
They don't abuse themselves with the drugs and the alcohol.
You're His chosen treasure.
And when we know it, when we look at these four points,
We want to know him more.
We know him more.
We know what he's done for us.
We know the hope of our calling.
We have a focus that this world isn't it.
And when I know that I'm inheritance, I'm going to live like it.
I'm not going to get cheapened by the lies of this world and these type of things.
And there's this beautiful place that we pray that they will know.
They're inheritance.
So we pray for them.
We live it ourselves, and we pray this for ourselves.
We're reminded of this.
This is a great outline.
You know, maybe pull it out every week, every month to remind ourselves to pray for this, these type of things.
Who we are and the treasures that we are.
But here's a word.
It's too much in the church.
Revelation 1210, there is an accuser of the brethren.
So all he lives for, accuse us before the throne.
Did you see what they did?
Do you know what they are?
A challenge and an attack and these type of things.
We need to pray.
We know there's an accuser of the brethren and we need to pray for our brothers and sisters that they don't buy into the lie that he's going to come and try to cast on them.
You're worthless.
Give it up.
You blew it again.
This is where we pray of there's an accuser coming against them and we're praying.
The last point we always say, what do we need to be on guard of deliverance, not in temptation, but deliverance from the evil one?
Jesus taught us in that model prayer.
But listen, Christian, don't do the devil's work.
All right?
It's too common.
Somehow, some way,
Christians and the church believe that they can become accusers of the brethren and lay charge against their brothers and go tell other people about their failings and their faults and, oh, you fill in the blank.
You know what I say?
You're doing the devil's work.
We need to, if we really are moved by what the situation is, maybe even it's something hurtful against us,
We don't need to go tell people what someone's done to us.
What we need to do is go tell the Lord.
Something's obviously not right.
Whatever's going on in their life, it's not right because they did what they did.
In my case, they did it against me.
Lord, may they know you more.
Lord, may they know the hope of their calling and not get wrapped up in the world.
Lord, may they know that their God's inheritance
and that I'm God's inheritance.
And that's the point that I'm making.
Could we possibly, how could we lay a charge against God's inheritance?
It will diminish this prayer.
When we know who we are, God's inheritance, then we'll live like it.
When we know where we're going,
We can lay and cast aside this world.
It was Queen Victoria, the young Queen Victoria.
As a young girl, she was being raised in all the models and all the ways of becoming a queen and the likes and the man and the people that were mentoring her.
Then finally, after years as she was coming into the young adult life in her teen years, someday,
you will be the queen."
And she had never knew that.
And she says, if someday I shall be queen, then I shall be today.
And always I will live good.
And here's the point that she brought herself to.
I'm going to live to my position.
I'm called to be the queen.
I'm gonna live like a queen.
Do you see that?
We're called to be his inheritance.
Therefore let's live like his inheritance.
And the last point is they will know the power available to them.
Verse 19 through 23.
And what is the exceeding greatness of his power towards us who believe according to the working of his mighty power?
which he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at the right hand in heavenly places.
Far above principalities and powers and might and dominion and every name that is named not only in this age, but also in that which is to come.
And he put all things under his feet and gave him to be head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all.
I love it.
It's a sermon in itself again.
My point is to cover all four points of this prayer so we can pray it for ourselves and others.
But have you noticed the power of his resurrected?
That's what we're to know.
The power of the ascent, the power of a resurrected Christ, the power of an ascended Christ, and then the power of a dominating Christ.
Verse 20, the resurrection, which he worked in Christ when he raised him from a dead.
That's power.
And that power is what's available to us.
And of the same power that rose Jesus from the grave, what could anything on this earth possibly have power over us?
And I tell people that don't tell me that you can't have victory over that addiction.
Don't tell me that you can't have victory over that anger or that depression or that you fill in the blank because we're all
in the same place.
If he said the power to raise Jesus from the dead is available to us and then lives in us because the Spirit of God is what power could possibly have over anything have over us.
And then here in verse 20, the ascended and he seated him at the right hand in heavenly places.
Roman tells us he's living to make intercession for us.
He's praying for us right now to take this power
And don't leave it in the warehouse, William Hearst Randall, but take it out and use it for the victory that Christ has promised us.
And then verse 21, dominating.
Far above principalities and power might and dominion.
And every name that is named not only in this age, but also in to come the dominating Christ power in us.
I did that on purpose.
Resurrected, ascended, dominating.
It's all there.
It's radical.
That's the power that we have.
It's radical power.
It's not some little bit of power.
It's the great power that he has been given, that has been given to us.
I could go on more and more.
I wish I could, but I respect our mark in our time that we have here.
Luke 18, one, and he spoke a parable onto them to this end that men ought always to pray and not faint.
And so we're going to pray for a couple minutes.
We're going to maybe pray for people in our lives or pray for ourselves.
These four points that he has given us and Father, we bless you.
Lord, thank you for that we got to know you more today.
All of us, even if we've read this and studied this multiple times, read it dozens of times, every time it becomes living and powerful and sharper than a two-edged sword.
And Lord, I pray for that person, we pray for that person, that they may know you more.
You'll draw them into the Word.
That's the only place to know you and who you are.
Your creation is marvelous and beautiful.
It's wonderful to walk among it.
But the place to know you more is in this Word, because the Word became flesh and dwelt among us.
It's living its powerful and sharper than a two-edged sword, able to divide spirit and soul, join in our own as the thoughts and discern the thoughts of man's heart.
And Lord, we pray for ourselves and we pray for
that person that they would know the hope of their calling.
That they would know passing through sojourners.
They don't know who you are and the price that you paid to redeem them and the value that they are as your inheritance.
That you would speak to them right now and need for a savior because of sin that separates.
But Lord for those that know you as well Lord that they would know that they are your inheritance and they will live like it.
the treasures that they are and Lord we would value each and each other brothers and sisters for the inheritance and treasure because the price that was paid was a God leaving heaven and coming to earth to take across the pain but you rose again on the third day and you've ascended
And now you live to make intercession for us, and that is radical and powerful.
And that power, Lord, is available to us today.
If there's anything in our lives, Lord, that we know needs to go and needs to be broken, would you give us the confidence in the power of your word?
It can go.
And then we can live like the inheritance that we are.
Lord, we pray for the people right now.
We put a hedge around them as the evil one would come and casting lies and spewing his poison.
Lord, that you would speak to them.
There is power in the blood of the lamb.
Resurrect in power, overcame sin and overcame death.
And Lord, that power is available to them today.
We bless you Lord.
We thank you for this word.
Let it be unto you.
Let it be glorifying as we apply it and let it please you that we believed it and enough to claim it and let it live in our lives.
We pray in your name.
Amen.
Let's worshiping one more song and God bless you.